My artifact for the software engineering and design category is an embedded system that leverages a Raspberry Pi 4 along with a temperature & humidity sensor, leds, a lcd screen, and buttons. The Pi serves as a thermostat through a state machine implementation which includes three states: off, heat, and cool. The thermostat functionality will measure the temperature of its environment and provide feedback through the leds (either pulsing or solid), the lcd screen, and sending thermostat recordings and information serially to a server simulator file. This artifact was created in the CS350 class, roughly 4 weeks ago. 

I chose this specific artifact because I took a large interest in embedded systems, IoT specifically, and decided to increase my knowledge in this area by applying additional functionality and features. I believe that my enhancement to serial communication, by sending secure packets and employing a persistent database, along with server validation, highlights my understanding and adherence to developing secure applications and devices. I also demonstrated my ability to create maintainable and reliable code by adhering to industry standard principles and practices such as zero-trust architecture and separation of concerns. This artifact was improved tremendously as I utilized cryptographic techniques to ensure the integrity and authenticity of data. I also employed server-side data authentication and replay protection to avoid cyberattacks such as MITM and eavesdropping, which are prevalent in IoT devices.
This enhancement met all of the course outcomes I outlined in my enhancement plan. The only course outcome I did not meet is the first outcome, I plan on using code sharing platforms such as GitHub to constitute a “collaborative environment” as described in the first outcome, however, I am unsure if this will satisfy the first outcome.
  
Lastly, this enhancement has taught me a lot about what it takes to transform an idea to an implementation. I found that I often defined objectives and goals ambiguously and this lead me to a fair number of dead ends while coding. I discovered that a well-defined plan with specific details for definitions and implementations was paramount to creating solutions that were both effective and secure. Specifically, I learned that by not explicitly defining data formats, types, etc. hinder my ability to create proper validation flows. However, I eventually overcame this issue through simple trial and error, and eventually created a solution that I found acceptable for the project scope. 
