# Professional Assessment
The Computer Science program at Southern New Hampshire University has allowed me to be competitive in one of the nation’s fastest growing industries. I’ve improved upon my strengths and skills through hands-on experience with industry standard software, foundational programming concepts, and data & mathematical skills that underpin today’s technologies.  

Through coursework and structured lesson plans, I’ve refined my attention to detail, improved upon my communication skills, increased my resiliency to overcome technical issues, and grew more confident with each and every project along the way. For example, the intro to scripting class (IT-140) served as a solid foundation for learning how to write a simple program and manipulate naive standard structures which gave me the confidence to explore more technical concepts such as SumTrees – which I leveraged to improve sampling efficiency in my deep Q-network enhancement.

The CS program along with the capstone project, a culmination of my newfound CS skills and expertise through artifact enhancement, opened the possibility for more niche topics of interest. I learned about concepts such as reinforcement-learning algorithms and embedded systems which assisted me in finding direction outside the traditional web development path. Additionally, this program also gave me the opportunity to explore concepts I found particularly interesting such as security and AI research. These are fundamental concepts which I propose give me a competitive advantage considering the technology sector is becoming an increasingly AI-centered field. 

The ePortfolio has allowed me to collect and store my best projects in a single location, making it easier for employers to examine my work. The CS program additionally taught me industry standards & best practices along with a strong sense of self-reliance. This was proven through my extensive work of reverse engineering legacy code and third-party software which sometimes lacks proper documentation. These skills I’ve developed have enabled me to be in control of the problem space rather than relying on others for a solution.

SNHU’s CS program and specifically the CS-360 class directly supported the improvement of my communication skills. I had to interview potential users for my mobile application to create an intuitive and functional app which prepared me for real life scenarios where I’m expected to discuss my technical knowledge and elicit requirements and use cases from and to non-technical audiences. This steppingstone prepared me for communicative obstacles I’ll most likely encounter towards my goal of creating ethical and highly transparent AI systems.

Software applications depend on more than just getting the problem solved. There are constraints such as time and space complexity, and a solid foundation in data structures & algorithms highlights my ability to optimize solutions. In my DQN enhancement, I previously stated I used a SumTree which improved my sampling efficiency from a time complexity of O(N) to O(log N) and this improvement directly supported an increased end-to-end training efficiency of my DQN model. In addition to improving time and space complexity from skills and knowledge I’ve gained from SNHU’s CS program, I also understood the need for data to be available when it’s required. We currently live in an era of data, and building systems that maintain confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data is paramount to meeting the demands and needs of users. The CS program taught me how to properly plan, develop, deploy, and maintain software following the guidelines and principles of the software development lifecycle and agile methodologies. 

As I mentioned, the current evolving landscape of the technology sector depends highly on data, and this data consists of sensitive information which requires proper handling and care. SNHU’s CS program has helped me develop a secure and responsible mindset to understand risk and avoid common vulnerabilities such as SQL injections or buffer overflows. This ensures that my code and software comply with security testing protocols through advanced security topics such as encryption technologies and communication protocols. This corpus of knowledge is utilized in developing software which can defend and withstand attackers through a security-first and defense-in-depth approach.

Lastly, my ePortfolio consists of two major artifacts developed from my Current/Emerging Trends in CS (CS-370) class and Emerging System & Architecture (CS-350) class. The CS-370 class consisted of a deep Q-network model which leveraged a naive experience replay buffer to supplement its training algorithm. The CS-350 class artifact consisted of a raspberry pi device acting as a thermostat and included an embedded state machine class to read the temperature of its environment and change its state according to button input received from its user cycling between off, heat, and cool states. 

I chose these artifacts to highlight my abilities to optimize solutions, develop secure code, and handle large tasks efficiently. The thermostat was improved in the first enhancement by creating a secure and standard packet to send temperature and device data. I focused on leveraging secure techniques such as encryption of data and mechanisms to detect replay attacks through the use of nonces and timestamps. The DQN was improved in the second enhancement by leveraging standard data structures and algorithms to improve the sampling time complexity. This was achieved by creating a prioritized experience replay buffer, as opposed to the naive replay buffer, which leveraged the temporal difference error as a means of measuring priority for samples and a SumTree to hold a specified number of samples. Finally, the thermostat artifact was improved again in the third enhancement which demonstrated my ability to think securely through adding packet verification and parsing with additional mechanisms that allowed developers to communicate within the server, allowed users to view their thermostat temperature readings through a web interface, and store readings and device information in a persistent database. 
