# Narrative
My artifact for the databases category is a thermostat application that implements server validation and a user-facing web-app. It also utilizes fastAPI to create a lightweight server that validates and stores payload data allowing users and admins to access device and state readings. The thermostat application is leveraged as user-focused visualization aid to read and link devices and their data to accounts. This artifact was created in class CS350, roughly 4 weeks ago. 

I chose this specific artifact because I took a large interest in embedded systems and decided to increase my knowledge in this area by applying additional functionality to improve upon the functionality and utility of an embedded system. I believe that my enhancement to the raspberry pi, utilizing fastAPI, highlights my knowledge of databases and shows my considerations towards developing secure and functional code. I also demonstrated my ability to create maintainable and reliable code by adhering to industry standard principles and practices such as separation of concerns and validation. This artifact was improved tremendously as I utilized fastAPI to create a lightweight server which improved pipeline security and allowed access to device and state data via a web browser.

This enhancement met all of the course outcomes I outlined in my enhancement plan. The first outcome is especially satisfied with this enhancement as I focused on creating a task management route to allow admins to create and resolve tasks within the server. Satisfying the “collaboration” portion of the first outcome. 

Lastly, this enhancement has taught me a lot about what it takes to consider persistent data and its relationships between models/tables. For example, I focused on defining meaningful relationships between accounts, devices, readings, and tasks. Each of these tables holds important data which is leveraged to visualize data and allows users to examine their data via a web browser.
