My artifact for the algorithms and data structures category is a deep Q network (DQN) that implements two hidden layers within a neural network to approximate the q function. It also utilizes two networks, one to select actions and the other to evaluate those actions. The DQN is trained on a maze which is an 8x8 2d array object where the agent has to find the most optimal route to the end of the maze while maximizing the reward it received and acquiring a 100%-win rate. This artifact was created in class CS370, roughly 4 weeks ago. 

I chose this specific artifact because I took a large interest in AI, reinforcement learning (RL) specifically, and decided to increase my knowledge in this area by applying additional functionality to improve upon the replay’s time complexity. I believe that my enhancement to the experience replay, utilizing a SumTree, highlights my knowledge of reinforcement learning algorithms and shows my considerations towards developing optimized code. I also demonstrated my ability to create maintainable and reliable code by adhering to industry standard principles and practices such as separation of concerns and standard benchmark tests. This artifact was improved tremendously as I utilized a SumTree data structure which improved the sampling time complexity from O(N) to O(log N), a tremendous improvement considering these algorithms are leveraging thousands to hundred-thousands of episodes.

This enhancement met all of the course outcomes I outlined in my enhancement plan. The only course outcome I did not meet is the first outcome, I plan on using code sharing platforms such as GitHub to constitute a “collaborative environment” as described in the first outcome, however, I am unsure if this will satisfy the first outcome. 

Lastly, this enhancement has taught me a lot about what it takes to consider time complexity optimizations. For example, I discovered various prioritized experience replay implementations from stochastic rank-based approaches to uniformly distributed approaches. Each of these methods have their pros and cons and it was essential to define what outcomes I wanted to achieve in order to create a solution for my enhancement.
